---
layout: post
title: Launching FocusCuts
date: 2022-05-17 17:00
author: Rosemary Orchard
---
Today, we are proud and excited to launch FocusCuts. 

At WWDC 2021, the Mac received some incredible things, especially with the addition of Shortcuts for the Mac and Focus Modes. These two features further cemented the Mac as an incredible tool for power users, power, there was one omission—at least in our view. With Shortcuts, there is no way to tell if a Focus Mode is enabled or which Focus Mode is active. We quickly realised this information isn't something you can get on iOS, but you can find it on the Mac!

<figure>
<object type="image/svg+xml" data="/assets/auto/shortcuts.svg"></object>
<figcaption>The Shortcuts app with the FocusCuts actions</figcaption>
</figure>

During development we also saw another opportunity—for a better menu bar application. The Shortcuts Menu Bar application is excellent, but it's always the same—whether you're on your work laptop or your personal device, if you're in movie watching mode or trying to get on with some writing. With FocusCuts, however,  your menu bar is _contextual_. You choose which Shortcuts you want to appear in which Focus Mode, and those are what show up, keeping all the unnecessary clutter hidden out the way until you need it. If you want to skip the hassle of adding Shortcuts regularly (especially when building or reworking your automated productivity systems), then you can take advantage of the [folder watching](/help.html#watch-a-folder) functionality.

We hope that the combination of useful actions inside Shortcuts, and smarter Shortcuts in your Menu Bar will earn FocusCuts a small place on your Mac.